July 14, 2019

Hello! 

My name is John. I am currently studying to become a data scientist and based on some recommendations, decided to create a website to chronicle my journey. Additionally, I decided that blogging about what I am currently studying will help cement that information into my head. Currently I am focusing on improving my R skills by taking DataCamp's course "Data Scientist with R." Upon completing that track, I will likely take more of their courses on Python until August 5. August 5 is when I will begin taking courses with Springboard. Springboard focuses primarily on Python, which is why I am studying R with DataCamp instead. With Springboard's career track, there are three "specializations" you can choose between which will ultimately influence the topics covered throughout the track. I was debating between the deep learning track or the NLP track, but I ended up choosing the deep learning specialization. Ultimately, it became a matter of **"what do I want to accomplish with the knowledge I gain?"** and to me, deep learning was more in line with my goals. Right now, the end goal is to attain a career using data science to positively influence people's lives. I want to be able to *see* the difference I make. More specifically, I am thinking about a career in using machine learning for medical applications, such as diagnosis through imaging. At the end of the day, I will just see where life takes me and continue studying. I think of a quote I read once. I don't remember who said it. Something about driving at night, and you can only see as far as your headlights reach. Despite only seeing 100m ahead of you, you can "make the whole trip that way." Well that's what I'm going to continue doing. I'll continue focusing on whats in front of me, 100m at a time. 
